1-B

2-B

3-A

4-B

5-B

6-A

7-B

8-C

9-B, D

10-A, B,C,

11-A,B

12-R2 shows how well fit a curve or line. Adjusted R2 also indicates how well terms fit a curve or line, but adjusts for the number of terms in
   a model. If you add more and more useless variables to a model, adjusted r-squared will decrease.

13- A cost function is a measure of how wrong the model is in terms of its ability to estimate the relationship between X and y. This is typically expressed as a
   difference or distance between the predicted value and the actual value. The cost function (you may also see this referred to as loss or error.)

14- SST: The sum of squares total, denoted SST, is the squared differences between the observed dependent variable and its mean. You can think of this as the
    dispersion of the observed variables around the mean – much like the variance in descriptive statistics.

                  SST= summation(Yi-Y_hat)**2

measure of the total variability of the dataset.

SSR: The second term is the sum of squares due to regression, or SSR. It is the sum of the differences between the predicted value and the mean of the dependent 
     variable. Think of it as a measure that describes how well our line fits the data.
 
                 SSR = summation(Y_hat- Y_bar)**2

If this value of SSR is equal to the sum of squares total, it means our regression model captures all the observed variability and is perfect. Once again, we have
to mention that another common notation is ESS or explained sum of squares.

SSE: The last term is the sum of squares error, or SSE. The error is the difference between the observed value and the predicted value. We usually want to minimize
 the error. The smaller the error, the better the estimation power of the regression. Finally, I should add that it is also known as RSS or residual sum of squares.
 Residual as in: remaining or unexplained.

15-The evaluation metrics used to evaluate a regression model are as follows:
R2 Score: Also known as coefficient of determination. R2 signifies that what fraction of total variance is explained by the best fit line.

Adjusted R2 Score: Adjusted R2 and R2 both represent that how well the model fits the data points. But adjusted R2 penalizes the model for using more features.
In case we increase the number of features in training data the R2 will increase but adjusted R2 will only increase if the new feature adds value to our model. 
Due tothis reason adjusted R2 is considered as a better evaluation metric than R2. Adjusted R2 is always less than or equal to R2.

Mean Squared Error(MSE): Mean Squared error is the mean of all the squares of the distances of each data point from its predictions by the best fit line.

Root Mean Squared Error(RMSE): is the standard deviation of the residuals (prediction errors). Residuals are a measure of how far from the regression line data
points are; RMSE is a measure of how spread out these residuals are. In other words, it tells you how concentrated the data is around the line of best fit. It is 
nothing but square root of MSE