1. Which of the following is not a core datatype in python?
B) struct

2. Which of the following is an invalid variable name in python?
C) 1_no 

3. Which one of the following is a keyword in python?
A) in

4. In which of the following manner are the operators of the same precedence executed in python?
A) Left to Right

5. Arrange the following in decreasing order of the precedence when they appear in an expression in python?
i) Multiplication ii) Division iii) Exponential iv) Parentheses
C) iv – iii – ii – i 

6. (28//6)**3/3%3 = ?
C) 0.3333…

7. Which of the following is not equal to x16 ?
C) x^16

8. a = input(“Enter an integer”). What will be the data type of a?
B) str

Q9 and Q10 have multiple correct answers. Choose all the correct options to answer your question.
9. Which of the following statements are correct?
A) Division and multiplication have same precedence in python
B) Python’s operators’ precedence is based on PEDMAS
D) In case of operators’ having same precedence, the one on the left side is executed first.

10. Which of the following is(are) valid statement(s) in python? 
A) abc = 1,000,000 C) a,b,c = 1000, 2000, 3000 D) a_b_c = 1,000,000

11. Differentiate between a list, tuple, set and dictionary.

List: Lists are just like dynamic sized arrays, declared in other languages (vector in C++ and ArrayList in Java).
Lists need not be homogeneous always which makes it a most powerful tool in Python.
The main characteristics of lists are – 

The list is a datatype available in Python which can be written as a list of comma-separated values (items) 
between square brackets.
List are mutable .i.e it can be converted into another datatype and can store any data element in it.
List can store any type of element.

Tuple: Tuple is a collection of Python objects much like a list. The sequence of values stored in a tuple can be of 
any type, and they are indexed by integers. Values of a tuple are syntactically separated by ‘commas’. 
Although it is not necessary, it is more common to define a tuple by closing the sequence of values in parentheses. 
The main charactersitics of tuples are – 

Tuple is a immutable sequence in python.
It cannot be changed or replaced since it is immutable.
It is defined under parenthesis().
Tuples can store any type of element.

Set: In Python, Set is an unordered collection of data type that is iterable, mutable and has no duplicate elements. 
The major advantage of using a set, as opposed to a list, is that it has a highly optimized method for checking whether
 a specific element is contained in the set. The main characterisitcs of set are –

Sets are unorder collection of elements or unintended collection of items In python.
Here the order in which the elements are added into the set is not fixed, it can change frequently.
It is defined under curly braces{}
Sets are immutable.i.e it cannot be changed or replaced.

A dictionary is a mapping from keys to values where the keys can be all sorts of different objects, 
in contrast to lists where the 'keys' can only be numbers. So you can have the_dict = {'abc': 3, 'def': 8}
and then the_dict['abc'] is 3. They keys of a dict are much like a set: they have no order and you can test for 
their existence quickly.

12. Are strings mutable in python? Suppose you have a string “I+Love+Python”, 
write a small code to replace ‘+’ with space in python.

In python, the string data types are immutable. Which means a string value cannot be updated.
 We can verify this by trying to update a part of the string which will led us to an error.

a="I+love+Python"

b=a.replace("+"," ")
print(b)
    
13. What does the function ord() do in python? Explain with example. Also, write down the function for getting the datatype of a variable in python.

The ord() function in Python accepts a string of length 1 as an argument and returns the unicode code point 
representation of the passed argument. For example ord('B') returns 66 which is a unicode code point value of 
character ‘B’. In this tutorial, we will discuss the ord() function with the help of examples.

Python ord() function Example
In the following example we are finding the unicode code point values of an integer, 
a character and a special character. The first 128 unicode code points are same as 
ASCII values which means the unicode code points are same as the ASCII values of these passed strings of length 1.

print("The ASCII value of 9 is",ord('9'))

o/p

The ASCII value of 9 is 57

question 14 and 15 are in the code file ipynb 