1. Which of the following is/are DDL commands in SQL?
A) Create D) ALTER

2. Which of the following is/are DML commands in SQL?
A) Update B) Delete

3. Full form of SQL is:
B) Structured Query Language

4. Full form of DDL is:
B) Data Definition Language

5. DML is:
A) Data Manipulation Language

6. Which of the following statements can be used to create a table with column B int type and C float type?
C) Create Table A (B int,C float) 

7. Which of the following statements can be used to add a column D (float type) to the table A created above?
B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float

8. Which of the following statements can be used to drop the column added in the above question?
B) Alter Table A Drop Column D

9. Which of the following statements can be used to change the data type (from float to int ) of the column D of table A created in above questions?
B) Alter Table A Alter Column D int

10. Suppose we want to make Column B of Table A as primary key of the table. By which of the following statements we can do it?
A) Alter Table A Add Constraint Primary Key B 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

11.what is data warehousing?
Data ware housing is process for collecting and managing data from varied sources to provide meaningful business insights. 
A Data warehouse is typically used to connect and analyze business data. 
The data warehouse is the core of the BI system which is built for data analysis and reporting.

A Data Warehouse works as a central repository where information arrives from one or more data sources. 
Data flows into a data warehouse from the transactional system and other relational databases.

Data may be:
Structured
Semi-structured
Unstructured data

The data is processed, transformed, and ingested so that users can access the processed data in 
the Data Warehouse through Business Intelligence tools, SQL clients, and spreadsheets.

12. What is the difference between OLTP VS OLAP?
Online Analytical Processing (OLAP) is a category of software tools that analyze data stored in a database 
whereas Online transaction processing (OLTP) supports transaction-oriented applications in a 3-tier architecture.

OLAP creates a single platform for all type of business analysis needs which includes planning, budgeting, forecasting, and analysis 
while OLTP is useful to administer day to day transactions of an organization.

OLAP is characterized by a large volume of data while OLTP is characterized by large numbers of short online transactions.
In OLAP, data warehouse is created uniquely so that it can integrate different data sources for building a consolidated database 
whereas OLTP uses traditional DBMS.

13. What are the various characteristics of data-warehouse?
There are four prominent data warehouse characteristics:

Subject-oriented–A data warehouse is always a subject oriented as it delivers information about a theme instead 
of organization’s current operations. It can be achieved on specific theme. That means the data warehousing 
process is proposed to handle with a specific theme which is more defined. 
These themes can be sales, distributions, marketing etc.

Integrated: The way data is extracted and transformed is uniform, regardless of the original source.

Time-variant: Data is organized via time-periods (weekly, monthly, annually, etc.).

Non-volatile: A data warehouse is not updated in real-time. It is periodically updated via the uploading of data, 
protecting it from the influence of momentary change.As the name defines the data resided in data warehouse is permanent. 
It also means that data is not erased or deleted when new data is inserted.


14. What is Star-Schema?
In the Star Schema, the center of the star can have one fact table and a number of associated dimension tables. 
It is known as star schema as its structure resembles a star. 
The star schema is the simplest type of Data Warehouse schema. 
It is also known as Star Join Schema and is optimized for querying large data sets.
Every dimension in a star schema is represented with the only one-dimension table.
The dimension table should contain the set of attributes.
The dimension table is joined to the fact table using a foreign key
The dimension table are not joined to each other
Fact table would contain key and measure
The Star schema is easy to understand and provides optimal disk usage.

15. What do you mean by SETL?
SETL is SET Theory Langauge
(SET Theory Language) A programming language developed by Jack Schwartz in the early 1970s. 
It is based on set theory and used for mathematical and telecommunications applications.